# ADR 001: Use ENV variable to control behavior in production-like envs

## Status

Proposed

## Context

We would like to be able to use WebValve to fake external service
integrations in production-like environments.

When using WebValve in a production-like environment, we'd like to be
able to support three different use-cases:
* enable all services by default, and don't load WebValve at all. This
    is equivalent to WebValve's current production behavior:
    zero-overhead, no risk of accidentally loading a fake service
    instead of a real one.
* enable all services by default (as if WebValve is disabled) but allow
    each service to be flipped into faking mode based on an env
    variable. This allows us to support faking a service in a staging
    environment where we cannot actually integrate with a real or
    sandbox version of the external service while still connecting to
    real versions of all other services.
* disable all services by default (as if WebValve is enabled) but allow
    each service to be flipped into real mode bsed on an env variable.
    This allows us to spin up cheap one-off environments for
    user-testing, proof-of-concepting, etc.

In summary, we need ways to control:
* the activation of WebValve: loading the library, loading
    the fakes, configuring WebMock
* the default mode of WebValve: intercepting vs. allowing
    (pass-through)
* the explicit enabling / disabling of individual services

We came up with a few approaches to support these use-cases:

*Activate if required*
This will load and activate WebValve when it's required. If you don't
want to activate it, don't require it. The downside to this approach is
it's easy to accidentally load WebValve in the wrong env. Additionally,
in an env where we want to enable all services by default and only
disable select ones, we'd have to define the ${SERVICE}_ENABLED env
variable for all services and update each time we add a new services,
which can be quite annoying.

*Activate based on env variable*
Rework the WEBVALVE_ENABLED env variable so that it supports 3 modes:
off, on and allowing traffic by default, and on and intercepting traffic
by default. If the WEBVALVE_ENABLED variable is unset, don't activate
the lib. If WEBVALVE_ENABLED is explicitly set to 0 then load in
passthru mode, allowing fakes to be toggled on explicitly via their
${SERVICE}_ENABLED env variable. If WEBVALVE_ENABLED is explicitly set
to 1 then load in intercepting mode, allowing fakes to be toggled off
explicitly via their ${SERVICE}_ENABLED env variable.

*Don't support it at all*
Lastly, a sort of non-option option: don't support faking in
production-like envs. Don't support any envs other than dev and test.
Advise that the gem should only go in the dev/test group. This is safest
for production use, but means that production-like envs that want to
swap out real versions of services would have to do it by actually
deploying a version of their fake service and connecting to it out of
process as if it were a real service. This is nice from the "make it
real" angle, but introduces quite a bit of overhead and it's
well-aligned with the WebValve philosophy of making things convenient
and as isolated as possible.

## Decision

We chose the "Activate based on env variable" approach. It introduces
more complexity to this library, but support for these use-cases feels
worth it. We're not the happiest with having the WEBVALVE_ENABLED env
variable have different meanings for "0" and unset, but I think that we
can document it clearly to head off confusion for the power users that
actually want to utilize WebValve in production-like environments. For
the standard user, nothing about how they're currently using WebValve
will change.

## Consequences

More complexity to manage in this library.

Controlling WebValve activation via an ENV variable, makes it slightly
easier to unintentionally enable WebValve in production.

The current behavior of WEBVALVE_ENABLED is replaced.
